---
layout: post
title: Zabbix - manual openstack integration
---
Zabbix openstack manual installation/integration.

Step-by-step guide
### INTRO.

1. Use standart zabbix fuel plugin or you will regret

2. Look after zabbix server/client version accordance (zabbix 3, zabbix-agent 1.3, for example)

### What we need to do:
- install agents on nodes
- install zabbix server on one node
- configure all agent scripts and configs in /etc/zabbix
- configure server configs
- configure mariadb/mysql serverside
- imort templates in zabbix ui
- configure templates, triggers, alerts in webui
Not a rocket science, but sometimes you will find some illogical behavior in the zabbix ui

### Zabbix agent installation

1. wget http://repo.zabbix.com/zabbix/3.0/ubuntu/pool/main/z/zabbix/zabbix-agent_3.0.0-1+trusty_amd64.deb && dpkg -i zabbix-agent_3.0.0-1+trusty_amd64.deb

2. vi /etc/zabbix/zabbix_agentd.conf
- Server=serverIp(or fqdn)
- ServerAcive=serverIp(or fqdn)
- #Hostname
- UserParameter=rabbitmq.queue.items,/etc/zabbix/scripts/check_rabbit.py queues-items (example)

3. cp -r scripts /etc/zabbix/
_get scripts from this repo:_ https://github.com/openstack/fuel-plugin-external-zabbix/tree/master/deployment_scripts/puppet/modules/plugin_zabbix/files/scripts

4. service zabbix-agent restart

### UserParameter scripts configuration

UserParameter consists from key reference (rabbitmq.queue.items) path to script (/etc/zabbix/scripts/check_rabbit.py) and arguments (queues-items) for it execution  

All we need is to write them down carefully. After that we can use them for monitoring of out infrastructure.  
You can test your UserParameter with this command:  
zabbix_agentd -t key[argument].   
Example: zabbix_agentd -t proc.num[] выведет кол-во активных процессов.  

Example of a UserParamter configuraion:  
https://github.com/openstack/fuel-plugin-external-zabbix/tree/master/deployment_scripts/puppet/modules/plugin_zabbix/manifests/monitoring

### Zabbix Server installation
Offical doc:  
https://www.zabbix.com/documentation/3.0/ru/manual/installation/install_from_packages

At first you need to gather some basic information about your zabbix installation such as:  
- Pollers count  
- Timeout for zabbix agents(VERY important parameter)
- Acceptable openconnections to db count  

When you gather all information about your configuration edit server config:
vi /etc/zabbix/zabbix_server.conf
Timeout=30
StartPollers=1000
vi /etc/systemd/system/mariadb.service (новый файл)
.include /lib/systemd/system/mariadb.service
[Service]
LimitNOFILE=10000
LimitMEMLOCK=infinitysystemctl restart mariadb.service
Also you'll need to change max_connections variable in DB:  
vim /etc/my.cnf.d/server.conf

check your settings:  
``mysql -u USER -p PASS;SHOW VARIABLES LIKE 'open%';show variables like 'max_connections';``


### Template import
Login in zabbix webui, go to Configuration -> Templates  
Press import, choose the file, press import  
None of the import rules should be changed   

If you get some errors on import of your handmade templates you should check your template's structure with referenced one:  
- Name of template
- group
- application
- items
- triggers

Aplication and group are needed for template and item grouping in zabbix. And furthermore, for every item we need to point on its own application.  

Items and triggers are the key elements of our template.  
When you work with Items,  pay attention to <key> and <application> sections.    
<key> is a key that referenced on test that will be excuted by zabbix agent.  
_Example:_  
 <key>net.tcp.service[service,0.0.0.0,8779]</key>.  
This key tells zabbix that it should execute a standart zabbix test 'net.tcp.service' and check service availability on the 0.0.0.0:8779 address.  

Trigger is a conditional statement for item checking (placed in section <expression>).  
_Example:_  
<expression>{Template App OpenStack Tesora Trove:net.tcp.service[service,0.0.0.0,8779].last(0)}=0</expression>
The first part of trigger (Template App ....) is a host OR template reference. Zabbix will use our conditional check on them.  
Your can use either hostname or tempate name.  
The second part of  trigger is a key which we can get from our item.  
And the last part of trigger is a conditional itself.  
In our case .last(0)}=0 checks if exit code equal 0 or not and if exit code=0 then trigger runs.  
Also you can set alert level for trigger on scale from 0 to 5 (Informatio/Disaster).  

### Host groups creation and Template binding
From UI:  

1. Host discovering - enable autodiscovering rules
2. Assert hosts to specific groups for your own convenience - controllers, compute and etc
3. Go to Configuration -> Templates and add hosts to each your template  
_Example_:  
Hosts/Template - Other goups - controllers - drag and drop all controllers to the left.  

### Few tips for web UI

Don't use Monitoring tab! Instead use Configuration tab. They both have the same list of menus but Monitoring tab doesn't allow you to change configuration.  
In UI there are a lot of different filters, so be carefull with them or you will not find anything. These filters are evrywhere! In Monitoring tab you can find them on the top right (group and trigger filters), in the center (status, name filters and others).  
You can disable triggers items and other stuff for each host individually. You should go to Configuration - Hosts - triggers tab if this is what you want. When the trigger is disabled it can be deleted from Overview menu in trigger tab - left click on trigger - configuration - delete.
